---
template: post
title: Creating a GatsbyJs Blog On Azure Static Web Apps - Introduction
slug: azure-static-web-apps-gatsbyjs-intro
socialImage: /media/image-0.jpg
draft: true
date: 2020-09-26T13:43:00.000Z
description: This is a placeholder description to see where it goes.
category: Tests
tags:
  - Azure Static Web Apps
  - GatsbyJS
---
Posts in this series:

* [Introduction](/posts/azure-static-web-apps-gatsbyjs-intro)
* Azure Static Web App - Hosting 
* Azure Static Web App - Apex Domains with Cloudflare
* Azure Static Web App - Application Insights
* Github CI/CD Pipeline
* Netlify and Forrestry headless CMS

[Source code](https://github.com/benackland/acklanddevgatsby)

This series will cover how I built this blog using GatsbyJS and hosted it in Azure Static Web Apps for free. It'll also deep dive into some of the issues I encountered using apex domains and application insights.

## Intro

I have intended to start blogging for a long time. The intention is to use it as a public notebook to document the things I learn as I learn them. My hope is that by being public it will be helpful to others but will also help me. Explaining a topic requires you to understand and learn it in a way just reading about it doesn't.

## Jamstack

I have chosen to build the blog using the Jamstack for a number of reasons. It's performant, scalable and secure. It's also incredibly cheap to host. Plus all the cool kids are doing it right now. I work with ASP.net all day at work and wanted to use something completely different but still relevant.

Initially I built this as a Ghost blog running in a container in an Azure Web App. Unfortunately due to new restrictions on mounting volumes in an app service that solution stopped working.

## Azure Static Web Apps

Static web apps are a new offering in Azure and their . As I work with Azure daily in my day job  

## GatsbyJS and Markdown

## Headless CMS

There are a few ways to approach content in a Gatsby site. Simplest of all you can just manually create a markdown file in your IDE for each of your pages and commit them directly to your repo. 

If you want a nicer editing experience you can use a CMS. In this case we're talking about a headless CMS. This means the CMS and where the content is published are separate. This is different from a typical CMS like Ghost or Wordpress where the CMS is built in to the site. Separating the CMS out  allows the content created there to be published to multiple targets in the correct format for each.